{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2707
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 MySQL Functions\
\
TEXT\
\
CONCAT\
- concat basically works where you have to manually state how you want to display things.\
If you want mr somewhere, add it where you want it. If you want a space, add it where you want it.\
\
ex:\
select CONCAT('Mr. ', first_name, ' ', last_name) FROM ninjas;\
\
Result:\
Is all the existing first and last names presented with Mr. before it. Exactly like the below:\
\
CONCAT(\'91Mr. \'91, first_name, \'91 \'91, last_name)\
Mr. david ramirez\
Mr. gisselle ramirez\
Mr. mow ramirez\
etc...\
\
ex using AS:\
select CONCAT('Mr. ', first_name, ' ', last_name) AS full_name FROM ninjas;\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Result:\
Is all the existing first and last names presented with Mr. before it but this time around \
With the column name full_name rather than what it was before. Exactly like the below:\
\
full_name\
Mr. david ramirez\
Mr. gisselle ramirez\
Mr. mow ramirez\
etc...\
\
ex using AS with more than one: \
select CONCAT('Mr. ', first_name, ' ', last_name) AS full_name, age AS youth FROM ninjas;\
\
Result:\
Is all the existing first and last names presented with Mr. before it but this time around \
With the column name full_name rather than what it was before. \
And this time pulling age and referring it to youth Exactly like the below:\
\
full_name		| youth\
Mr. david ramirez     | 23\
Mr. gisselle ramirez | 21\
Mr. mow ramirez	| 1\
etc...\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
CONCAT_WS\
- concat is a bit smoother. You add what you want at the beginning and it will do it after the first value.\
If you want a space between every value, put the space in the beginning and a space will be provided \
Between all the values after the first value. \
\
ex: \
select CONCAT_WS(' ', first_name, last_name, age) AS ninja_info FROM ninjas;\
\
Result:\
ninja_info\
david ramirez 23\
gisselle ramirez 21\
mow ramirez 1\
etc...\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 * If you want something additional but not follow after every value. Just add it where you want it\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Ex.\
select CONCAT_WS(' ', 'first', first_name, 'cool',last_name, age) AS ninja_info FROM ninjas;\
\
Result:\
first david cool ramirez 23\
first gisselle cool ramirez 21\
Etc...\
\
LENGTH()\
- length is a way of getting the length size of the values we have. \
\
Ex. \
select LENGTH(last_name) as last_name_length from ninjas;\
\
Result:\
last_name_length\
7\
7\
7\
7\
15\
Etc\
\
* We can even combine what we know for better and clearer results\
\
Ex. \
select concat_ws(' ', last_name, LENGTH(last_name)) as last_name_length from ninjas;\
\
Result:\
\
ramirez 7\
ramirez 7 \
ramirez 7\
ramirez 7\
ramirez-vazquez 15\
etc.... \
\
LOWER()\
- lower puts the value in all lower case \
\
Ex. \
select lower(first_name) as first_name_lowercase from ninjas;\
\
\
\
Result:\
first_name_lowercase\
david\
gisselle\
mow\
etc... \
UPPER()\
- upper does the opposite of lower(). It puts all the characters in upper case. \
\
\'97DATE\'97\
HOUR()\
- hour() retrieves the hour you desire of an existing value. \
\
Ex. \
select hour(created_at) as join_hour from ninjas;\
\
Result:\
joined_hour\
13\
13\
13\
13\
Etc...\
Putting \'93time\'94 instead of hour does the exact same except it gives you the actual time.\
\
DAYNAME()\
- retrieves the day of the week of the existing dates that you require\
Ex. \
select dayname(created_at) as weekday_joined from ninjas;\
\
Result:\
Sunday\
Sunday\
Sunday \
Sunday\
Etc... \
\
\
MONTH()\
- month() retrieves the month of the existing date that you desire.\
\
Ex. \
select month(created_at) as month_joined from ninjas;\
\
Result:\
month_joined\
7\
7\
7\
7\
\
\
NOW()\
- allows you to see the date and time of right now\
\
Ex. select now() as right_now;\
\
Result:\
right_now\
2023-07-06 20:01:58\
\
\
DATE_FORMAT()\
- allows you to present your date in the common clear way we see on a daily basis\
\
Ex.\
select DATE_FORMAT(created_at, '%W %M %e, %Y') AS date from ninjas;\
Date\
Sunday July 2, 2023\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sunday July 2, 2023\
Sunday July 2, 2023\
Sunday July 2, 2023\
Etc\'85\
The comma after %e was included but it. Is not. Necessary. Comes to show that it does not affect it.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
}